It is of paramount importance to put in a lot of thought when selecting a suitable maid. After-all entrusting your children's well-being and your valuables into a stranger's hands is no easy task. Especially when this fear has been fueled by numerous news coverage of maids gone bad!

With the proper background check and preparation you can be confident you've made the right choice. Here are tips to consider when selecting a suitable maid, to make your selection process smoother:


1) List Your Expectations

Make a detailed list of the attributes with priorities you look for in a helper, and the purpose of getting domestic help. This will help you when going through numerous bio-datas.

It is important for you to show your list to the agency as well as the maid you chose so it is very clear from the onset what you are looking for.



2) Check the agency's credentials

Check the background of the agency. It is best to choose an agency based on the recommendation of a close family member or friend. It's been reported that maid agencies are one of the easiest businesses to set up, so do go with popular and reputable ones.

Do check MOM's website for the list of reputable maid agencies.




3) Check statistics on the agency

Some maid agencies have high turnover. And some have high accident rate. Get the stats. Ask questions.

Unless they're talking about high success rate, any other rate in the high zone should set off alarm bells in your head.



4) Think about the nationality


This question often arises– Filipino, Indonesian, Sri Lankan, etc..?

It comes down to shared interests and beliefs. Ideally, you'd want a live-in helper who shares the same religion, has experience in cooking the food you like, and be able to communicate in the same language. It makes living together less awkward.


5) Do a through background check

If she's a 'transfer maid', her employment history in Singapore should be made available to prospect employees.

Question the information the agency gives you– "If she's a good domestic helper, why didn't her employer renew her contract?"

If she's new to Singapore, it's advisable to know her situation back home so as not to cause complications in her employment commitments. 



6) Interview your potential helper

It is important to speak to your potential helper and ask all the questions important to you with regards to child care, her family, her personality and her expectations. If her English is not too good and you are talking over the phone, make sure there is an interpreter present to avoid misunderstandings in the future.

If you are hiring a transfer maid, request to bring her home for two hours to meet the rest of your family. Most good agencies will oblige to this.



7) Professional Experience

What's your reason for getting a domestic helper? It could be to look after your aged parent, or your child. It could also be for just domestic chores. Choose carefully based on their working experience, and area of specialties.


8) The language barrier

Some families and helpers are fortunate enough to end up with someone who speaks the same language. Without a doubt, it makes communication easier, and directions/instructions less ambiguous. If they don’t speak your language, pick a helper who speaks English fairly so you can understand each other!


9) Get the agency to commit on a timeline

Confirm with the agency that you'll be refunded if they can't deliver your helper within a month (usually can take up to a month for new helpers), and if you can't find a suitable one from their existing portfolio.


10) Check on details regarding replacement

It's very important to inquire about replacement as some agencies will not replace your current helper with a new one even though she's committed an offence.


11) Conduct all the various medical tests you can afford

Try to do other medical tests besides those required by MOM: parasites, hepatitis etc - especially if your helper will be cooking and helping with kids.