When interviewing for a security guard position, you want to do everything you can to let the interviewer see that you are responsible, reliable and honest. While you should always be prepared for common job interview questions, there are guard-specific questions that you’ll want to make sure you have practiced before hand.


Tell me about a time when you successfully dealt with an angry member of the public not with physical force, but with only your words.

Draw from your past experience to describe how you have dealt with a similar instance. The interviewer is getting a sense of how you respond to security threats.

"Before entering into the security field, I worked in customer service jobs. It allowed me to hone my people skills and learn to communicate effectively. In my last position as a retail security officer, a customer got extremely upset. She began yelling and damaging clothing displays. I allowed the woman to explain herself and voice her concerns. Then, I assured her that the matter would be handled, but the best way to get the issue resolved was by remaining calm and discussing the situation with the store manager."
How do you decide when you need to use your weapon to defuse a situation?

This is a very important question because as a security officer you are entrusted with weapons and the ability to use them wisely.

"This answer is extremely clear cut for me. A weapon should be used for the sole purpose of a life-threatening situation and as a last resort. My main goal is to protect myself and everyone around me, even those that appear to be a threat to themselves. If I come across a case that is non-fatal and there are other means of settling the problem, then resorting to the use of any weapon is unnecessary."
What skills do you have that make you a good fit for this position?

Explain to the interviewer what skills you possess both professionally and personally that will make you a great candidate.

"I have several skills that are applicable to this position and qualify me to be a good fit. First, I am trained in assembling and monitoring surveillance equipment. Second, I am CPR and First Aid certified. Lastly, I've taken martial arts for over 10 years so I feel comfortable protecting those around me."
If you are working at a large event where there is a large, rowdy crowd, what steps could you take to make sure the event does not become chaotic?

It is common for the interviewer to ask hypothetical scenarios to see how you would handle such situations.

"In that type of setting, the most important thing to do is be observant, alert and proactive. With larger crowds, issues have the tendency to escalate quickly because of the magnitude of the crowd. To avoid that I would assess and tend to smaller problems as soon as they arise. Additionally, when the crowd is moving it's crucial the maintain the flow and direction to keep things running smoothly."
How do you stay motivated during quiet periods?

Depending on the type of security you'll be doing, you may be faced with moments of downtime. Let the interviewer know you will continue to remain focused on your job.

"If there happen to be extended quiet periods, I would patrol the perimeter of the area. It would provide a nice change of scenery, while still allowing me to do my job effectively. I like to remain productive even in my downtime. At the end of the day, I have a responsibility to protect and quiet periods don't interfere or distract with that being my priority."